hi everyone
joe goth here creator of brushfighter io
this scene was created in unreal engine
5 using the brushify environment toolkit
everything you're about to see is
running on a single 1080 ti
on a normal consumer level desktop pc
this is not just a normal landscape
this is a fully physicalized and
interactive world
think of it sort of like a futuristic
version of minecraft
i can chip away at the world by
tunneling into the landscape
and as i do rocks and all these small
pebbles
will become dislodged and move with real
physics
every single rock that you see is
physicalized
this sort of physical interaction
unlocks a lot of gameplay possibilities
for instance here i can summon these
meteors to hit the ground
and they'll cause real deformations in
the landscape
this is possible because this entire
landscape
is rendered using the vauxhall plugin in
my opinion
this really takes games to the next
level in terms of technology
not only is it now possible to have near
photorealism
but we can also physically interact with
our worlds in a way never before
possible
on consumer hardware here you can see me
actually tunneling
into the landscape and actually creating
a hole
directly through the terrain brushify
takes care of
automatically texturing the landscape as
it gets deformed we can sculpt the
landscape in just the same way as we
would a normal
unreal engine landscape but with the
added benefit of being able to create
overhangs
it's also really cool how all of the
physicalized objects
interact with the landscape as you
sculpt and this is all able to take
place
in run time i'm also making use of
unreal engine 5's nanite feature
and here you can see in the nanite
preview that i'm actually using it to
make the distance mountains much much
cheaper
i'm able to use the high polygon version
of all of the distance mountains
and really just go completely crazy with
the art side of things
and not really worry about performance
in the distance at all
another really cool feature i was able
to use in the scene
is actually the volumetric clouds i'm
actually using ultra dynamic sky
in this scene with the volumetric clouds
preset
this is really cool because it allows me
to have real three-dimensional clouds in
the scene
and also to take full control over the
look i think ultra dynamic sky is
perfect for these really dynamic
gameplay scenes
so i'm actually able to have a full 24
hour day and night cycle
this entire lighting setup will pretty
much work out of the box
and you can pretty much just tweak
sliders here and there and you'll get
similar results to these
by the way all of the assets that you
see here the rocks the grass
the distance mountains these are all
assets that are included in the brushify
packs
these rocks are all brushify 3d scans
they're all designed to be modular
encapsulated and game ready
which means they're really easy to place
in the context of an open world game
they're also completely set up to use
physics out of the box
the other quite impressive thing about
this is that the
world size is actually not small uh it's
five kilometers across by five
kilometers across
so 25 kilometers squared and what's also
amazing
is that as i move through this voxel
world
new procedural meshes will be generated
on the fly
so here you can see that wherever i go
to it's going to become automatically
populated
completely procedurally with these sort
of grass and rocks
and those are all going to follow preset
rules so that's sort of things like what
angle
the rocks are going to spawn at the sort
of
quantity and density of the rocks for
different areas
and it will really just sort of make its
mind up what the world is going to
look like so i didn't have to hand place
all of the stuff
it was all procedurally generated
automatically
another unreal engine 5 feature that i'm
making use of here
is lumen lumen allows us to have
fully interactive global illumination
so that means that as i put an object
like this red cube into the world
you can see that it's actually
reflecting that red onto the nearby
rocks
so here if i make this red cube even
bigger we can see that all of the nearby
rocks are actually getting that red
reflection
from the cube so i think this is a
really good example of
global illumination because you can see
the cube is effectively acting as a
light source
even though there are no actual red
lights in the scene
and if i actually change this cube's
color to somewhere in the green here
and i just have to move it around and
you can see that
as the light updates now all of the
rocks have got the green reflection
going on instead of red
and that's because all of this stuff is
happening dynamically
in real time now this is quite an
exaggerated example
but what you can actually see when you
turn on lumen
is that every object in the scene feels
more embedded in its surroundings
and that's because it's actually getting
light that is reflected from the rest of
the scene
which has the correct color and tonality
that it should actually have
the fact that you can just play around
with colors and lighting
and everything will update in real time
is one of the big game changers with
unreal engine 5
and lumen if i actually move this light
further away you can see that that blue
light's now completely disappeared
and if i bring it back the blue light
reappears again
so it really is completely real-time
and uh interactive there's no baking
there's no waiting
and also it doesn't have the cost of rtx
or ray tracing so it's a very cheap
way to get very nice looking
global elimination and i think just
overall you can really see
the big difference that it makes to
pretty much any scene because all of the
rocks here for instance just look
like they're very well embedded into
their environment at this point it
really feels like i'm using a game
engine from the future
with this demo i really wanted to go
crazy and string together all of the
most sort of high-end and really
experimental
technology so unreal engine 5
brushify voxel plug-in ultra dynamic sky
put them all together into one project
and get everything working and see how
it looks
i really think the results have been
really fantastic
and to be honest i'm really surprised
just how well all of this works
in this early access version i was very
surprised how stable it is
it's running at least 60 fps on my 1080
ti
which is now a pretty old video card and
um yeah i'm just very happy that all of
this tech
really can just work and really the
setup worked
pretty much out of the box to be honest
unreal engine 5 itself
is still early access and all of the
plugins and things that i'm using
are constantly being worked on and
improved but i think with time we're
going to get more stability more
performance and even better graphics
out of just stringing together all of
these different technologies
i'm really hoping that this video serves
as a little bit of inspiration
and a sort of glimpse into the future
and maybe opens everyone's eyes to what
could be possible for games
going forward in the future i can see
developers creating
vast destructible worlds we really are
no longer limited to
corridor shooters or these sort of
simplistic solid environments
the world can be completely dynamic and
we can have realistic graphics
alongside this level of physicality
since unreal engine 5 came out i felt
more than ever like i'm living
in the future of real-time graphics so
i'd like to give a huge thanks to epic
games
for unreal engine 5 and for pushing us
into the future of technology
and i'd also like to give a big thank
you to voxel plugin
whose technology and customer support
allowed me to create this demo
and to ultra dynamic sky for the
beautiful lighting presets
hi everyone so yeah just wanted to wrap
the video up by saying
don't forget to subscribe by clicking
the subscribe button below
and a little bell notification icon
thingy
if that's still there i don't even know
it really does help me with this channel
and sort of growing the channel and also
it helps me get a good idea of what you
kind of
want to watch what you guys are liking
and what you don't like that kind of
thing
also feel free to add a comment below
and ask me anything about
you know brushify or unreal that kind of
stuff most of the time i will reply if
it's a serious question
i think that's just about everything
from my side don't spend all summer on
unreal engine 5
go outside try and enjoy the sun while
it lasts
that's a big word of advice to everybody
and after a winter like last winter
i think we all need to have a little bit
less stress
in our lives go outside get some sun
and live your best life alright guys joe
garth
signing out take care everyone cheers
you